---
layout: post
title: hdu4300
tag: acm
---

# Clairewd's message

  Clairewd is a member of FBI. After several years concealing in BUPT, she intercepted some important messages and she was preparing for sending it to ykwd. They had agreed that each letter of these messages would be transfered to another one according to a conversion table. 
Unfortunately, GFW(someone's name, not what you just think about) has detected their action. He also got their conversion table by some unknown methods before. Clairewd was so clever and vigilant that when she realized that somebody was monitoring their action, she just stopped transmitting messages. But GFW knows that Clairewd would always firstly send the ciphertext and then plaintext(Note that they won't overlap each other). But he doesn't know how to separate the text because he has no idea about the whole message. However, he thinks that recovering the shortest possible text is not a hard task for you. 
Now GFW will give you the intercepted text and the conversion table. You should help him work out this problem. 

## Input

The first line contains only one integer T, which is the number of test cases. 
Each test case contains two lines. The first line of each test case is the conversion table S. S[i] is the ith latin letter's cryptographic letter. The second line is the intercepted text which has n letters that you should recover. It is possible that the text is complete. 

**Hint**

Range of test data

T<=100

n<=100000

## Output

For each test case, output one line contains the shorest possible complete text.

## Sample Input

```
2
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
abcdab
qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm
qwertabcde
```

## Sample Output

```
abcdabcd
qwertabcde
```

## 题解

因为一定是有一半密文一半明文，那么最短的密文一定是输入字符串的一半的位置开始找。也就是(len+1)/2的位置开始按照转换表转化，这样的话就可以得到test的nxet数组 找出最长的公共前后缀。然后需要加的字符就一目了然了。

## 代码

```c++
#include<cstdio>
#include<cstring>
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;
int nx[100005];
char ss[100005],s[100005],pp[100005],c[100005];
void getnext(char *p)
{
	int k=-1,j=0;
	nx[0]=-1;
	int pLen=strlen(p);
	while(j<pLen)
	{
		if(k==-1||p[k]==p[j])
		{
			j++;
			k++;
          //if(p[k]!=p[j])
			nx[j]=k;
          //else
          //nx[j]=nx[k]; 注释部分为优化.
		}
		else
			k=nx[k];
	}
}
int main()
{
	int t;
	scanf("%d",&t);
	while(t--)
	{
		scanf("%s",s);
		scanf("%s",pp);
		int sLen=strlen(s);
		for(int i=0;i<sLen;i++)
			ss[s[i]-'a']=i;
		strcpy(c,pp);
		int pLen=strlen(c);
		int n=(pLen+1)/2;
		for(int i=n;i<pLen;i++)
		{
			c[i]=s[c[i]-'a'];
		}	
		getnext(c);
		int k=pLen;
		while(nx[k]>pLen-n)
		{
			k=nx[k];	
		}
//		printf("%d\n",nx[k]);
			for(int j=0;j<pLen-nx[k];j++)
				printf("%c",pp[j]);
			for(int j=0;j<pLen-nx[k];j++)
				printf("%c",ss[pp[j]-'a']+'a');
		printf("\n");
	}
	return 0;
}

```

