---
layout: post
title: hdu1686
tag: acm
---

## Oulipo

The French author Georges Perec (1936–1982) once wrote a book, La disparition, without the letter 'e'. He was a member of the Oulipo group. A quote from the book: 

Tout avait Pair normal, mais tout s’affirmait faux. Tout avait Fair normal, d’abord, puis surgissait l’inhumain, l’affolant. Il aurait voulu savoir où s’articulait l’association qui l’unissait au roman : stir son tapis, assaillant à tout instant son imagination, l’intuition d’un tabou, la vision d’un mal obscur, d’un quoi vacant, d’un non-dit : la vision, l’avision d’un oubli commandant tout, où s’abolissait la raison : tout avait l’air normal mais… 

Perec would probably have scored high (or rather, low) in the following contest. People are asked to write a perhaps even meaningful text on some subject with as few occurrences of a given “word” as possible. Our task is to provide the jury with a program that counts these occurrences, in order to obtain a ranking of the competitors. These competitors often write very long texts with nonsense meaning; a sequence of 500,000 consecutive 'T's is not unusual. And they never use spaces. 

So we want to quickly find out how often a word, i.e., a given string, occurs in a text. More formally: given the alphabet {'A', 'B', 'C', …, 'Z'} and two finite strings over that alphabet, a word W and a text T, count the number of occurrences of W in T. All the consecutive characters of W must exactly match consecutive characters of T. Occurrences may overlap. 

### Input

The first line of the input file contains a single number: the number of test cases to follow. Each test case has the following format: 

One line with the word W, a string over {'A', 'B', 'C', …, 'Z'}, with 1 ≤ |W| ≤ 10,000 (here |W| denotes the length of the string W). 
One line with the text T, a string over {'A', 'B', 'C', …, 'Z'}, with |W| ≤ |T| ≤ 1,000,000. 

### output

 For every test case in the input file, the output should contain a single number, on a single line: the number of occurrences of the word W in the text T. 

### Sample Input

```
3
BAPC
BAPC
AZA
AZAZAZA
VERDI
AVERDXIVYERDIAN
```



### Sample Output

```
1
3
0
```

### 题意：

给a，b串，问b在a中出现几次。普通kmp 改改板子就好了。

```c++
#include<cstdio>
#include<cstring>
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;
int t,n,m,nx[10005],ans=0,nt[10005];
char s[1000005],p[10005];
void kmpsearch()
{
	int i=0;
	int j=0;
	int sLen=strlen(s);
	int pLen=strlen(p);
	while(i<sLen)
	{
		if(j==-1||s[i]==p[j])
			j++,i++;
		else
			j=nx[j];
		if(j==pLen)
		{
			ans++;
			j=nx[j];
		}
	}
}
void getnext()
{
	int k=-1,j=0;
	nx[0]=-1;
	int pLen=strlen(p);
	int sLen=strlen(s);
	while(j<pLen)
	{
		if(k==-1||p[k]==p[j])
		{
			j++;
			k++;
			nx[j]=k;
		}
		else
			k=nx[k];
	}
}
int main()
{
	int t;
	scanf("%d",&t);
	while(t--)
	{
		scanf("%s",p);
		scanf("%s",s);
		getnext();
		ans=0;
//		printf("%d\n",nx[3]);
		kmpsearch();
		printf("%d\n",ans);
	}
	return 0;
}

```

